Docs: JK-10836: New managing OpenShift Streams on cluster guide (#655)
redhat-developer/app-services-guides: docs/kafka/manage-cluster/README.adoc

:getting-started-url-connectors: connectors/getting-started-connectors/README.adoc
:getting-started-rhoas-cli-url-connectors: connectors/rhoas-cli-getting-started-connectors/README.adoc
:addon-url-connectors: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_connectors/1/guide/15a79de0-8827-4bf1-b445-8e3b3eef7b01

//OpenShift API Designer
:product-long-api-designer: OpenShift API Designer
:product-api-designer: API Designer
:product-version-api-designer: 1
:service-url-api-designer: https://console.redhat.com/application-services/api-designer/
:getting-started-url-api-designer: api-designer/getting-started-api-designer/README.adoc

//OpenShift API Management
:product-long-api-management: OpenShift API Management
:product-api-management: API Management
:product-version-api-management: 1
:service-url-api-management: https://console.redhat.com/application-services/api-management/

////
END GENERATED ATTRIBUTES
////

[id="chap-managing-cluster"]
= Managing {product-long-kafka} on a ROSA cluster
ifdef::context[:parent-context: {context}]
:context: deploying-cluster

// Purpose statement for the assembly
[role="_abstract"]

> As an organization administrator, you can deploy {product-long-kafka} within your own controlled environment on your own ROSA cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an organization administrator, you can deploy {product-long-kafka} within your own controlled environment on your own {rosa-name} (ROSA) cluster.
```

Reviewer: Suggest spelling out first occurrence of ROSA acronym using `{rosa-name}` attribute. 

Note that this attribute is currently set to `OpenShift Service for AWS` in upstream and downstream repos, but should be `OpenShift Service on AWS`. See https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift/aws

Author: Thanks @smccarthy-ie for the great catch. Will amend it in both repos.

//Additional line break to resolve mod docs generation error.

[id="proc-installing-on-your-rosa-cluster_{context}"]
== Installing {product-kafka} on your ROSA cluster

> You must install {product-long-kafka} on your {rosa-name} ROSA cluster before users in your organization can create Kafka resources. Use the {product-long-rhoas} `rhoas` command-line interface (CLI) to register your (ROSA) cluster through a call to the Kafka Service Fleet Manager service. This service exposes a Rest API to manage Kafka instances. Registering your ROSA cluster allows the service to install certain necessary add-ons to your cluster so users can provision their Kafka instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must install {product-long-kafka} on your {rosa-name} ROSA cluster before users in your organization can create Kafka resources. Use the {product-long-rhoas} `rhoas` command-line interface (CLI) to register your (ROSA) cluster through a call to the Kafka Service Fleet Manager service. This service exposes a REST API to manage Kafka instances. Registering your ROSA cluster allows the service to install necessary add-ons to your cluster so users can provision their Kafka instances.
```

Reviewer 2: +1 @k-wall I think we should only mention RHOSAK service or just service in place where we mention fleet manager

Author: Thanks @k-wall. I will remove any mention of it from the doc.

Reviewer 3: Change looks good.

.Prerequisites

* You have a Red Hat account.
* You are an organization administrator.
* You've installed the latest version of the `rhoas` CLI (see {base-url}{installation-guide-url-cli}[Installing and configuring the rhoas CLI^]).

> * You have created a ROSA cluster. {product-long-kafka} uses the bring-your-own-key (BYOK) encryption that you have configured in your ROSA cluster. As a result, volumes used by the service are automatically encrypted using your key. For more information about creating and configuring a ROSA cluster, see https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-creating-a-cluster-with-customizations.html[Creating a ROSA cluster with STS using customizations^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have created a ROSA cluster. {product-long-kafka} uses the bring-your-own-key (BYOK) encryption that you have configured in your ROSA cluster. As a result, volumes used by the service are automatically encrypted using your key. For more information, see https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-creating-a-cluster-with-customizations.html[Creating a ROSA cluster with STS using customizations^].
```

> * You have created a ROSA cluster. {product-long-kafka} uses the bring-your-own-key (BYOK) encryption that you have configured in your ROSA cluster. As a result, volumes used by the service are automatically encrypted using your key. For more information about creating and configuring a ROSA cluster, see https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-creating-a-cluster-with-customizations.html[Creating a ROSA cluster with STS using customizations^].

Reviewer 3: BYOK is a option. The way it is expressed here it sounds like it is mandatory.    If the user has configured BYOK on their ROSA cluster, the service will use it.  If they haven't the service will just use a platform owned key instead.

Author: Thanks @k-wall. I can move it to above section.

Reviewer 3: Looks good now.

Author: Thanks @k-wall. If you are happy with the doc, can you give it a LGTM please? I will then merge it and sync the revised ROSA attribute downstream, and create a new PR to capture any QE validation feedback.

.Procedure

. In a terminal, log in to `rhoas`.
+
--
[source,shell]
----
$ rhoas login
----

Your web browser opens the {rh-sso-url}[Red Hat Single Sign-On page^].
--

. Enter your credentials to log in to your Red Hat account.
+
--
Welcome pages in the browser notify you that you've been logged in to `rhoas` successfully.

In your terminal, the `rhoas login` command indicates that you're logged in.
--
. In your terminal, register your ROSA cluster using the `openshift-cluster (oc) register-cluster` command.
+
--
[source,shell]
----
$ rhoas kafka oc register-cluster
----

This command installs the following add-ons to the cluster:

> * Managed Kafka kas-fleetshard-operator: Required for provisioning and managing instances of Apache Kafka on a cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Managed Kafka kas-fleetshard Operator: Required for provisioning and managing instances of Apache Kafka on a cluster.
```

> * Managed Kafka operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Managed Kafka Operator
```

Reviewer: Suggest also adding a description for the Managed Kafka Operator like in the other two bullets

> * Observability operator: Required for metrics collection on the Kafka instance. Unlike the previous two, this add-on appears on the *Projects* page instead of the *Add-ons* page of the https://console.redhat.com/openshift[OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Observability Operator: Required for metrics collection on the Kafka instance. Unlike the previous two, this add-on appears on the *Projects* page instead of the *Add-ons* page of the https://console.redhat.com/openshift[OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console^].
```

--
+
[NOTE]
--
These add-ons are required by and managed by {product-kafka} only and must not be adapted or changed in any way.
--
+

> . The CLI lists the available clusters in your organization  and prompts you to select the ready cluster to register. Use the arrows on your keyboard to select the required cluster.

Reviewer 3: the ready => a ready

> . The CLI lists the available clusters in your organization  and prompts you to select the ready cluster to register. Use the arrows on your keyboard to select the required cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. The CLI lists the available OpenShift clusters in your organization and prompts you to select the cluster to register. Use the arrows on your keyboard to select the required cluster.
```

The cluster will not be in a `ready` state until the registration and installation of the operators/ addons is complete. Unti then it is just an OpenShift cluster.

. The CLI prompts you to create a machine pool with a specified node count. The required node count is calculated by identifying the number of requested Kafka streaming units and multiplying by three:
+
----
required_node_count = requested_Kafka_streaming_units × 3
----
+
For example, a Kafka instance of 2 streaming units requires a machine pool of 6 nodes. A streaming unit determines the default maximum capacity of a Kafka instance. An instance with a larger size can handle higher loads and process more events, has more storage, and can handle more clients and connections.
+

> If there is an existing machine pool which has the correct node labels and taints required by the Kafka Service Fleet Manager, then this machine pool is automatically selected for use by default. Labels and taints in a machine pool allow you to organize sets of objects and control the scheduling of pods. For more information about machine pools, labels, and taints, see https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_service_on_aws/4/html/cluster_administration/nodes#rosa-nodes-machinepools-about[About machine pools^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is an existing machine pool that has the correct node labels and taints required by the Kafka Service Fleet Manager, this machine pool is automatically selected for use by default. You can use labels and taints in a machine pool to organize sets of objects and control the scheduling of pods. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_service_on_aws/4/html/cluster_administration/nodes#rosa-nodes-machinepools-about[About machine pools^].
```

Reviewer 2: > required by the Kafka Service Fleet Manager

same comment as https://github.com/redhat-developer/app-services-guides/pull/655#discussion_r1150920485

+
Enter `6` as the required node count to create a machine pool with 6 nodes called `kafka-standard`.
+
[NOTE]
--
This kafka-standard machine pool is for use with {product-kafka} only. Do not assign your own production workloads to run within it.
--
. Enter `y` to confirm you want your Kafka instances to be accessible through a public network.

.Verification

> . Verify the registration has been successful by logging in to the https://console.redhat.com/openshift[OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console^], clicking *Clusters*, and clicking the name of your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify the registration is successful by logging in to the https://console.redhat.com/openshift[OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console^], clicking *Clusters*, and clicking the name of your cluster.
```

. On your cluster page, click the *Machine pools* tab.
.. Expand *kafka-standard* to view more details of the newly created machine pool including the labels and taints required by the Kafka Service Fleet Manager that have automatically been included as part of the registration process.
. Click the *Add-ons* tab.
+

> On the *Add-ons* page, an installing icon appears, indicating that the services have begun installing. A green check mark appears in the service option when the installation is complete. You might have to refresh your browser to see the installation status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the *Add-ons* page, an installing icon is displayed, indicating that the services have begun installing. A green check mark appears in the service option when the installation is complete. You might have to refresh your browser to see the installation status.
```

> . (Optional) In the terminal, enter the list command to see your registered clusters with a ready state.

Reviewer 4: This `list` command will show the status of the cluster, not just clusters in a ready state.

i.e. if the cluster is still waiting on an add-on to finish installation then the status would be `waiting for kas-fleet-shard operater` (or terminology of the same effect). If a cluster is in a ready state then that's what the status will show.

+
--
[source,shell]
----
$ rhoas kafka oc list
----
--

[id="proc-uninstalling-from-your-rosa-cluster_{context}"]
== Uninstalling {product-kafka} from your ROSA cluster

[role="_abstract"]

> You can uninstall {product-long-kafka} from your ROSA cluster using the `rhoas dedicated deregister-cluster` command. This command removes all Kafka instances from the cluster first and then unregisters the cluster from Kafka Service Fleet Manager.

Reviewer 4: Great catch @k-wall , I'll have a look over the rest of this 👍

> You can uninstall {product-long-kafka} from your ROSA cluster using the `rhoas dedicated deregister-cluster` command. This command removes all Kafka instances from the cluster first and then unregisters the cluster from Kafka Service Fleet Manager.

Reviewer 4: just pointing out here, that if we are not using `Kafka Service Fleet Manager` then this will have to be altered here too.

.Prerequisites

* You're logged in to the `rhoas` CLI.
* You have registered a ROSA cluster.
* You are an organization administrator.

.Procedure

. In the terminal, view your registered clusters.
+
--
[source,shell]
----
$ rhoas kafka oc list
----
--
+
The CLI lists the registered clusters in your organization.
. View your Kafka instances.
+
--
[source,shell]
----
$ rhoas kafka list
----
--
+
. Unregister the cluster.
+
--
[source,shell]
----
$ rhoas kafka oc deregister-cluster
----
--
+
. The CLI prompts you to select a cluster to unregister. Use the arrows on your keyboard to select the required cluster.
+

> . You must remove all Kafka instances from the ROSA cluster in order to unregister it. The CLI asks you to confirm the name of the Kafka instance you want to delete. Confirm you want to delete each Kafka instance by entering the name of each one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. You must remove all Kafka instances from the ROSA cluster in order to unregister the cluster. The CLI asks you to confirm the name of the Kafka instance you want to delete. Confirm you want to delete each Kafka instance by entering the name of each one.
```

--
+
. The CLI lists the available {openshift} clusters in your organization  and prompts you to select a ready cluster to register. Use the arrows on your keyboard to select the required cluster.
. The CLI prompts you to create a machine pool with a specified node count. The required node count is calculated by identifying the number of requested Kafka streaming units and multiplying by three:
+
----
required_node_count = requested_Kafka_streaming_units × 3
----
+
For example, a Kafka instance of 2 streaming units requires a machine pool of 6 nodes. A streaming unit determines the default maximum capacity of a Kafka instance. An instance with a larger size can handle higher loads and process more events, has more storage, and can handle more clients and connections.
+
For more information on streaming units and for pricing details, see https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift/openshift-streams-for-apache-kafka/pricing[Pricing for Red Hat OpenShift Streams for Apache Kafka^].
+
Enter `6` as the required node count to create a machine pool with 6 nodes called `kafka-standard`.
+
[NOTE]
--

> This kafka-standard machine pool is for use with {product-kafka} only. Do not assign your own production workloads to run within it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This kafka-standard machine pool is for use by {product-kafka} only. Do not assign your own production workloads to run within it.
```

--
. Enter `y` to confirm you want your Kafka instances to be accessible through a public network.

> 

Reviewer 3: How does the reader know what to do next?  What leads them to creating a kafka instance?

Author: I can add it in a link to the Getting started guide here.

//OpenShift API Management
:product-long-api-management: OpenShift API Management
:product-api-management: API Management
:product-version-api-management: 1
:service-url-api-management: https://console.redhat.com/application-services/api-management/

////
END GENERATED ATTRIBUTES
////

[id="chap-managing-cluster"]
= Managing {product-long-kafka} on a ROSA cluster
ifdef::context[:parent-context: {context}]
:context: deploying-cluster

// Purpose statement for the assembly
[role="_abstract"]

As an organization administrator, you can deploy {product-long-kafka} within your own controlled environment on your own {rosa-name} (ROSA) cluster.

//Additional line break to resolve mod docs generation error.

[id="proc-installing-on-your-rosa-cluster_{context}"]
== Installing {product-kafka} on your ROSA cluster

You must install {product-long-kafka} on your {rosa-name} (ROSA) cluster before users in your organization can create Kafka resources. Use the {product-long-rhoas} `rhoas` command-line interface (CLI) to register your ROSA cluster. Registering your ROSA cluster allows {product-kafka} to install certain necessary add-ons to your cluster so users can provision their Kafka instances.

> If you have configured bring-your-own-key (BYOK) encryption in your ROSA cluster, {product-long-kafka} automatically encrypts volumes using your key. If you have not configured BYOK, {product-kafka} uses a platform owned key instead. For more information see https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-creating-a-cluster-with-customizations.html[Creating a ROSA cluster with STS using customizations^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have configured bring-your-own-key (BYOK) encryption in your ROSA cluster, {product-long-kafka} automatically encrypts volumes using your key. If you have not configured BYOK, {product-kafka} uses a platform-owned key instead. For more information, see https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/rosa_install_access_delete_clusters/rosa-sts-creating-a-cluster-with-customizations.html[Creating a ROSA cluster with STS using customizations^].
```
